NonrnAMrToNsnnffl, AD. 1255 ]14

came fully. They were sworn, and said that they knew nothing
thereof.

Sir Bobert Basset appeared and found twelve pledges as main-
perners of Peter the son of Mary of Rushton‚ the forester of the
wood, to produce himwheresoever required.

The strings aforesaid were given to William of the chamber, the

verderer‚ to produce before the justices.
The wood was taken into the hands of the lord king.

It happened on the Saturday ² next before the feast of St. Matthew
the Apostle in the thirty-ninth year of the reign of the king that
William XVeutrer and Elias of Stretford, the walking forestem, as
they watched in their bailiwick, met in the king’s highway from
WVininge about the middle of the night three men, one of whom rode
upon a horse. And the man on horseback‚ when he saw the said
foresters, fied. And the said William shot an arrow at him, where-
upon a sack, bloody and covered with hair, fell from him. And the
said foresters found the sack. Afterwards the said foresters met
Thomas the son of Alexander and Walter the son of Fythiun of
Lyveden, and caused them to be arrested; wherefore an inquisition
was made thereupon by the foresters and verderers and by four
neighbouring townships, to wit, Wadenhoe, Piston, Lyveden and Stoke.

Lyveden is sworn‚ and says that the aforesaid Thomas and Walter
were not in the company of the man who fied, nor were they guilty
of any offence against the venison of the lord king nor concerning the
sack found by the aforesaid foresters,

Pilton, Wadenhoe and Stoke are sworn‚ and agree in all respects
with Lyveden, which was first sworn.

The sack was delivered to three men of Lyveden, to wit, Bernard,
Adam the son of Aldich and Henry the son of Ailwin till the next
swanimote; and at the next swanimote it was given to Richard
Afflwinkle, the verderer, to produce before the justices of the forest.

William Clifard of Lyveden, Adam the son of Aldich of the same
town and Willam Cideran of the same town were mainperners for the
aforesaid Thomas the son of Alexander and Walter the son of

Pythian answering before the justices of the forest.

It happened on Monday⁴ next before the Nativity of the Blessed
Mary in the thirty-ninth year that Thomas the son of Roger the son of

